.\" @(#)ircd.8 2.0 (beta version) 29 Mar 1989 
.TH IRCD 8 "29 March 1989"
.SH NAME
ircd \- The Internet Relay Chat Program Server 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBircd\fP [-hhostname] [-pportnum] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fIircd\fP is the server (daemon) program for the Internet Relay Chat
Program.  The \fIircd\fP is a server in that its function is to "serve"
the client program \fIirc(1)\fP with messages and commands.  All commands
and user messages are passed directly to the \fIircd\fP for processing
and relaying to other UNIX sites.  The \fIirc(1)\fP program depends upon
there being an \fIircd\fP server running somewhere (either on your local
UNIX site or a remote UNIX site) so that it will have somewhere to connect
to and thus allow the user to begin talking to other users. 
.LP
If you plan to connect your \fIircd\fP server to an existing Irc-Network,
you will need to alter your local IRC CONFIGURATION FILE (typically named
"irc.conf") so that it will accept and make connections to other \fIircd\fP
servers.  This file contains the hostnames, Network Addresses, and sometimes
passwords for connections to other UNIXES around the world.  Because 
description of the actual file format of the "irc.conf" file is beyond the
scope of this document, please refer to the file README in the IRC source
files directory.
.LP
BOOTING THE SERVER:  The \fIircd\fP server can be started as part of the
UNIX boot procedure or just by placing the server into Unix Background.
Keep in mind that if it is *not* part of your UNIXES Boot-up procedure 
then you will have to manually start the \fIircd\fP server each time your
UNIX is rebooted.  This means if your UNIX is prone to crashing
or going for for repairs a lot it would make sense to start the \fIircd\fP
server as part of your UNIX bootup procedure.  In some cases the \fIirc(1)\fP
will automatically attempt to boot the \fIircd\fP server if the user is
on the SAME UNIX that the \fIircd\fP is supposed to be running on.  If the
\fIirc(1)\fP cannot connect to the \fIircd\fP server it will try to start
the server on it's own and will then try to reconnect to the newly booted
\fIircd\fP server.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.nf
tolsun% \fBircd\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Places \fIircd\fP into UNIX Background and starts up the server for use.
Note:  You do not have to add the "&" to this command, the program will
automatically place itself into UNIX Background after it has been executed.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1988 University of Oulu, Computing Center, Finland.
All rights reserved.
For full COPYRIGHT see COPYRIGHT file with IRC package.
.SH FILES
 /etc/utmp
 "irc.conf"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
irc(1)
.SH BUGS
None... ;-) if somebody finds one, please inform author
.SH AUTHOR
Jarkko Oikarinen, currently jto@tolsun.oulu.fi,
manual page written by Jeff Trim, jtrim@orion.cair.du.edu.
