The command line arguments to IRCII ar as follows:

irc [nick [server list]] [-c chan] [-p port] 
           [-l filename]  [-f] [-F] [-d] [-a] [-e program args]

You may specify a nickname, which will supersede the IRCNICK
environment variable.  The server list will be added to the
server list found in the IRCSERVER variable.  However, the 
servers specified on the command line will appear first in the
server list and be the first to which connections are attempted.
See HELP IRCII SERVER_LISTS for the format of a server list.
See also HELP IRCII ENVIRONMENT_VARS.

The -c switch allows you to select the channel on which you will
enter irc.  If this switch is not used, you will start out on
channel 0.

The -p switch determines the default port number to connect to
irc servers.  This default port number can be over-riden by
specifying a port number in the server list (see below) or using
the SERVER command (see HELP SERVER).

The -l switch take a filename as an argument.  This will cause
IRCII to use the specified filename as the user's .ircrc file
rather than the default ~/.ircrc. 

The -f switch tells IRCII that your terminal uses flow control
and that IRCII shouldn't take over the flow control characters.
You may want to rebind the flow control key functions to other
keys (see HELP BIND).  Normally, flow control uses ^S and ^Q
which are normally bound to TOGGLE_STOP_SCREEN and QUOTE_CHARACTER,
respectively.

The -F switch is just the opposite of the -f switch.  It tells
IRCII to take over the flow control characters.

The -d switch puts IRCII in "dumb" mode.  IRCII then uses no
fancy screen stuff or any fancy input editting.  It sends all
output to stdout and gets all input from stdin and only performs
your tty's normal input editting (if any).  Also, no keybinding
have any effect in this mode.

The -a switch tells IRCII to add the default IRCII servers to
your server list in addition to any servers you specify on the
command line or in the IRCSERVER variable.  The order in which
servers appear in you server list are as follows:
  1. command line servers (from left to right)
  2. IRCSERVER server (from left to right)
  3. Default IRCII servers

The -e switch allows you to use IRCII as an interface to creating
your own irc automatons.  The first argument after the -e switch
is the program to execute, while all following arguments are
treated as arguments to that program.  Thus, the -e switch must
be the last one on the command line.  All irc output is sent to
stdin of the program and all output from the program is sent to
irc as commands to be parsed.  IRCII forks itself into the
background immediatly when the -e switch is used.
