.TH IRC 1L "4 February 1990"
.SH NAME
irc \- interface to the Internet Relay Chat system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B irc
.RB [ \-c
.IR chan ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR portno ]
.RB [ \-d ] 
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ nickname
.RI [ "server list" ]]
.RB [ \-l
.RI "file name"
.RB ]
.RB [ \-e
.I process
.RI [ "arguments to process" ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I irc
program is a full screen, termcap based interface to Internet Relay Chat.
It gives full access to all of the normal
.I irc
functions, plus a variety of additional options.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c " chan"
Set the channel to
.I chan
(default: 0).
.TP
.BI \-p " portno"
Set the port number to
.I portno
(default: 6667, the standard
.I irc
port).
Only supply this if you connect to a server which uses a port other than 6667.
.TP
.B \-d
Start in "dumb" mode.
All input is taken directly from stdin and all output goes to stdout
without using any of the
.IR termcap (5)
screen control codes.
.TP
.B \-f
Use flow control (^S and ^Q) to stop/start the display.
Normally these are both bound to other functions within
.IR irc .
This switch is ignored if the
.B \ -d
or
.B \-e
switches are used.
.TP
.I nickname
Set the nickname
(overrides the environment variable
.BR IRCNICK ;
default: the username).
.TP
.I server
Set the list of servers with which
.B irc
will try to connect upon startup.
This list is also used by the program's
.B SERVER
command.
The format for lines in the list is:
.IP
.B hostname
.RB [: portno
.RB [: password ]]
.TP
.BI \-l " file name"
Selects a different file to be used as the .ircrc file for IRCII.
The default is $HOME/.ircrc.
.TP
.BI \-e " process"
Start a process which takes the output of
.I irc
as input.
The
.I irc
program uses the output of this process for its input.
This feature allows automotons to use
.I irc
as an interface on
.IR irc .
.SH "DETAILED DESCRITPION"
.SS "The Screen:"
The
screen is split into two parts, separated by an inverse-video
status line (if supported).
The upper (larger) part of the screen displays responses from the
.I irc
server.
The lower part of the screen (a single line) accepts keyboard input.
.LP
Some terminals do not support certain features required by
.IR irc ,
in which case,
the message "can't run irc on this terminal!" is printed.
If this occurs, try changing the terminal type or run
.I irc
with the
.B- \d
option.
.SS "Irc Commands:"
Any line beginning with the slash character '/' is regarded as an
.I irc
command (the command character may be changed; type '/help set cmdchar').
Any line not beginning with this character is treated as a message to
be sent to the current channel.
To produce a listing of commands, type '/help help'.
.SS "The .ircrc File:"
When
.I irc
is executed, it checks the user's home directory for a
.I \&.ircrc
file, executing the commands in the file.
This allows predefinition of aliases and other features.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B "irc -c 128 -p 5555"
Connect
.I irc
to port number 5555 of the default host and enter on channel number 128.
.TP
.B "irc Mermaid"
Use the nickname "Mermaid".
.TP
.B "irc Mermaid server1:5000:pass server2::foo server3:6667 server4"
Use the nickname "Mermaid" and the modified server list.
.TP
.B "irc -d"
Use dumb mode.
.TP
.B "irc -f"
Allow use of ^S/^Q to stop/start screen display.
.TP
.B "irc -e elisa"
Interface
.I irc
with a program called
.IR elisa .
.LP
.B "setenv IRCNICK Mermaid"
.br
.B "setenv IRCNAME \"The one and only :)\""
.TP
.B irc
Set the username (if not specified elsewhere) to "Mermaid".
The user's name (when provided inside parentheses in response to a
WHOIS command) is set to "The one and only :)".
.SH FILES
.TP 2.2i
.I /site/bin/irc
executable
.TP
~/.ircrc
default initialization file
.TP
/site/lib/irc
directory containing message, master initialization, and help files
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
It can be helpful to predefine certain variables in
in the
.IR \&.cshrc ,
.IR \&.profile ,
or
.IR \&.login
file:
.TP
.B IRCNICK
The user's
.I Irc
nickname.
.TP
.B IRCNAME
The user's
.I irc
realname (otherwise retreived from
.IR /etc/passwd )
.TP
.B IRCSERVER
The default
.I irc
server(s) (see server
.B option
for details)
.TP
.B HOME   
Overrides the default home path in
.IR /etc/passwd .
.TP
.B TERM   
The type of terminal in use.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
irc(1),
ircd(8)
.SH BUGS
Please notify the author of the software of any bugs, but of course
you won't find any ;-).
.SH AUTHORS
Program by Michael Sandrof (ms5n+@andrew.cmu.edu).
Manual page written by Darren Reed (avalon@coombs.anu.oz.au)
and revised by R. P. C. Rodgers (rodgers@maxwell.mmwb.ucsf.edu).
.\" end of man page
